hello my friends and welcome back to
another balers Gate 3 character building
guide hope you're all doing well today
we're covering something that I've
wanted to cover for a while we're just
going through a top 10 list or in this
case top 11 list of builds for Honor
mode I'm going to be doing a basic
overview of what I think the 11 best
builds in balers Gate 3 are for winning
in honor mode um we'll go over the
strengths and weaknesses of each of them
what draws you to play them what broken
mechanics they have access to that make
them some of the most powerful builds in
the game I will not be doing full build
guides for each of them but I have done
full build guides for each of them and
will link those videos in the
description so that if you want to do a
deeper dive into any of these characters
you can go check out my full build to
that character I think this will be a
really useful resource if you're just
looking to find some builds that will be
extremely powerful and uh good core to
build a party around all of these builds
are absolutely strong enough to carry a
party through honor mode so you can
combine them with characters that are a
little more flavorful or less optimized
or ones that you just think are really
fun in order to still have a really
excellent shot at winning um because
these builds are so strong there are
tens of thousands of builds in Boulders
Gate 3 so the top 11 are really the very
very best of the best because uh there
are just so many builds so if you don't
see your favorite build on here don't
worry it is almost certainly still
excellent this is just my pick for the
11 best builds in balers Gate 3 now as
you know the important thing about jokes
is that they're always funni as the
third time you tell them so this video
comes out of people really liking my
optimized character build videos so I
thought if I do a video that teaches you
which characters are the most optimized
in Boulders Gate 3
then oh no I've messed up I keep doing
this all right well I guess we just have
to forge ahead
so what does best even mean um obviously
this is an extremely subjective term so
when I say what are the 11 best builds
in Boulders Gate 3 what are we actually
talking about do we mean highest damage
do we mean most hit points do we mean
fastest move speed do we mean prettiest
any of those could reasonably be defined
as best so we need a working definition
if we're talking about what the actual
actual strongest builds are I'm going
with a very simple criteria for this
video by by best build I just mean the
easiest build to win with the I think
that uh that is the most useful criteria
to judge an honor mode build by not like
how much damage does it do on a perfect
turn or anything like that but just will
it win the game the highest percentage
of the time if you are especially if
it's your first run through honor mode
or you're relatively new newer to
strategy games and haven't memorized all
the encounters or anything we just want
the most powerful builds that will get
you through the game I think there are
three important criteria to consider
when we're looking at how easy it is to
win uh the game with a build first up
power obviously damage does matter so
raw the raw power of the build how much
damage it does how good it is at
controlling enemies how tanky it is how
high is its armor class how good are its
saving throws all of those things are
incredibly important when we're looking
at how strong a build is secondly
resiliency what this means is how good
is this build at recovering from Bad
situations incredibly bad die rolles
poor RNG bugs cuz this is still a game
where bugs happen relatively frequently
and sometimes can put you in bad combat
situations as a result play mistakes um
having had a couple beers before you sit
down to play any of those things can put
you in a bad situation and so a strong
build that's easy to win honor mode with
will be resilient to that kind of
setback and finally easy easiest to play
um what I mean by easiest to play in
this sense is both uh how easy is it to
avoid making play mistakes how
complicated are the decisions that you
have to make and also how smooth is the
actual gameplay through honor mode can
you make the story choices you want or
are you required to make specific ones
to get certain items um can you choose
uh specific uh different party members
with it or do you need a do you need
certain types of party members in order
to support the build that kind of thing
so basically the smoothest run through
honor mode I think is also important
because this is still a game you want to
be able to have fun with it so a build
that lets you do that I think is going
to be better in in my opinion than ones
that don't all right I can now hear the
sound of thousands of YouTube commenters
sharpening their pitchforks because the
intro has taken longer than a microwave
burrito so in the interest of saving my
own life let's get right into the top 11
builds for balers Gate 3 in number 11 I
have placed the loadin loadin is a
mixture of Paladin and warlock that uses
warlock spells which Refresh on a short
rest to get extremely high damage smites
much more often than another Paladin
build will in this way you get both the
best things from Warlock and the best
things from Paladin and combining these
two characters gives you a character
that is extremely powerful and also
extremely versatile I've put the way
that I suggest building the characters
here at the top so this is sort of the
most common build but then there's also
some alternate level splits that I've
included with several of these builds
the main strengths of the lock it in are
the incredible burst damage that you get
being able to spend highlevel warlock
spell slots on smites because you can
spend up to uh fourth or fifth level
warlock spell slots on spites increases
your burst damage massively you also get
incredible control because you are
Charisma based on all of your stats both
your attacks and your charisma and your
spells use your charisma so you get to
be a character that both uh has maxed
out attribute points for their melee
attacks and also maxed out attribute
points for their control spells most
notably command but also things like um
evard's black tentacles can really help
your party lock down enemies and the
Paladin and warlock together get access
to a whole bunch of the best control
spells in the game if you also go for a
great old one Warlock you get a lot of
free fears because this character gets
to use critical hits to its Advantage
you will often be attacking with
Advantage thanks to abusing darkness
that means you'll get a lot of critical
hits that means a lot of fears at a very
high save DC because it's based off your
charisma which is maxed out you can see
there's a lot of internal Synergy with
this build which is why I think it's so
powerful um you also get an excellent
ranged attack because you just get a a
fully powered up eldrich blast so you
get to also just be a great ranged
attacker when you can't close to melee
or don't have a relevant control spell
so this character is extremely versatile
in that it does some of the highest
burst damage in the game in melee uh has
an excellent ranged attack and has some
of the best control spells in the game
and those all operate off of a single
attribute so you don't have to use any
items or anything in order to make them
um extremely powerful you also get
access to Paladin abilities depending on
your level split that can include the
highle Paladin that increase your saving
throws or just give you the Paladin
abilities from the Paladin Oaths which
are pretty powerful in and of themselves
uh getting the permanent Advantage from
oath of Vengeance or the healing from
oath of the Ancients can be really
excellent uh getting the extra damage
from uh the extra damage based on
Charisma from oathbreaker Paladin all of
those are really excellent options for
the loaden that will power up your
character significantly
I also have a special mention for Hunger
of Hadar here just because it's a
game-winning spell it it's relevant
throughout the entire game so getting
access to it quite early as this
character does and having uh being able
to just Spam it out is very powerful you
do pay for this character strengths in
some uh ways mostly that it is primarily
a Melee character which is definitely a
downside for an honor mode character it
means that your positioning requirements
are harder it means you're more likely
to be in the line of fire of enemies
um so generally speaking it's easier to
play with ranged characters than with
melee characters so that's a a minor
downside for sure and it has a
relatively slow early game development
path because you need to hit third level
warlock for pack to the blade in order
to actually attack with your charisma
and you need to hit at least fifth level
warlock in order to get extra attack and
you need to hit at least level two
Paladin in order to get smites so it's
not really until level seven that this
character fully comes online you're
still very powerful up until that point
but um you nevertheless are a little bit
slower than a lot of these other builds
which I have put a lot of effort into
emphasizing being very strong in the
early game because that's the hardest
point of the game and the point where
your honor mode runs are most likely to
fail finally it is still pretty rest
dependent while you get to Smite based
on your warlock short rest spells rather
than uh a normal Paladin's long rest
spells so you're significantly less rest
dependent than just a class Paladin or a
pal Paladin sorcerer or Paladin Bard
multiclass you still do require those
short rests in order to get your highle
smites and your spells back and you will
often want to Long rest to get your
paladin spell slots back as well so you
are still somewhat rest dependent um you
will run through short rests relatively
quickly and that will cause you to Long
rest more often of course there are ways
to mitigate this by refreshing your
spell slots but that is definitely a
real downside of the character fin I've
listed just all the really broken stuff
that every character gets access to
these wouldn't be the most powerful
builds in the game if they didn't all
break the game in some way and so here
is some broken stuff that this build
gets to do you get to abuse darkness
which is one of the most powerful
effects in the game giving you advantage
on all your attacks your enemy
disadvantage on all their attacks and
completely shutting down ranged enemies
with no saving throw you get to abuse
Arcane Acuity where you hit an enemy and
then uh Stack Up Arcane acuity and then
potentially use bonus actions to
increase your safety c's for really high
level commands uh because you can use
your warlock spell slots on command you
can often take out five enemies without
uh take out five enemies with a high
level command allow that they can't
possibly resist because of your Arcane
Acuity stacking and you get to stack
Charisma because uh Charisma is just the
attribute that you can get highest in
the game uh so builds that are based off
of Charisma are very good I actually
also failed to put in the strengths that
you get good dialogue skills um another
important thing about this character so
that's the lock it in let's go on to
character number 10 in number 10 I have
placed the moon Druid Moon Druid is I
think the most powerful of the three
Druids because of its ability to bonus
action wild shape which makes it
significantly more resilient giving you
a lot more effective hit points and also
lets it use the very powerful play
pattern of casting one of druid's
incredible concentration spells and then
wild shaping and then subsequently just
beating the crap out of enemies in a
fight the great thing about a moon Druid
is that it is the best early game
character in the game in my opinion um
from levels one to three Mund Druid is
going to make your playthrough smoother
than just about any other character
between spider form and game-winning
spells like Spike growth uh you will be
able to just carry pretty much any party
through the early game and so having
access to this character makes the
hardest part of the game an awful lot
easier Moon Druids are also very tanky
because they get multiple hit point bars
both since the enemy needs to reduce
their wildshape form to zero and then
also their humanoid form to zero to kill
them um and they have access to a bunch
of fight winning spells especially in
the early game things like Spike growth
but also plant growth um and then later
on things like wall of thorns can just
instantly win fights on their own uh if
you aren't using Camp casting they also
get Heroes feast in the end game so all
throughout the game they have uh great
spell progression and access to just
completely fight winning spells um they
are also Druids also get the best
summons in the game and summons are very
powerful adding more bodies to your team
is incredibly useful of course because
just having more units on the field is
incredibly good in and of itself and
moon Druids get the best summons in the
game because they will be able to apply
to bring the mermad on summons they'll
be able to bring the Woodland being
summons and those are the two best
summon spells in the game Each of which
is a game-winning spell on its own they
also need no specific items and in fact
can't even really use specific items so
they will never conflict with the rest
of your party in terms of item access
and they only require a single attribute
they just need wisdom in order to
function uh because all of your other
attributes you just get from your wild
shape form so you don't particularly
need to increase your attributes or do
anything wacky in order order to
maximize the power of your character
finally they have great Mobility because
the wild shape forms especially early
game ones like the spider um come with
excellent Mobility so you will be able
to go wherever you want to in fights
which is always very useful the
downsides of Mund Druid are that they
usually require a setup turn at the
beginning of combat where you are going
to um cast a spell with your main action
and then enter wild shape with your
bonus action or enter wild shape with
your bonus action and start attacking
which means you either losing some power
because you're not casting one of your
highle spells or you are um not
attacking on your first turn of combat
so you have sort of a slightly less
effective opening turn not that those
turns aren't still very strong those are
still very good turns but in some fights
you will find that your Druid um has
spent their first turn setting up and
then the fight is over by the time they
get around to their second turn and so
they don't actually make any of their
attacks
uh and also while you're in Wild shaped
form you can often lose concentration on
spells if your positioning isn't perfect
so you do have to be very careful about
that or invest resources into taking a
feat like uh Constitution resilient or
warcaster in order to present prevent
that they also have relatively low burst
damage for a damage focused character
and especially for a melee damage
focused character because when you're in
melee form you're going to be doing
melee damage um but you mitigate that by
by mostly being a control and casting
character that just also gets really
good sustained damage so the low burst
damage is definitely a downside but
isn't uh would isn't as crippling as it
would be for other melee characters
broken options that Moon Druids get to
abuse include the tavern brawler feet
which just doubles your strength uh to
hit which means you just never miss your
attacks when you're in Wild shape form
at time of recording they don't on honor
mode get their strength to hit twice uh
strength to damage twice in Wild shape
forms only their strength to their
Attack rules gets doubled with Tavern
brawler but that's the important part so
it's still just incredibly powerful to
not miss your attacks especially because
it some of the wild shapes especially
the late game wild shapes like the Earth
madon have incredible damage output and
they also get to abuse the wet condition
both by being really good at applying it
and also by having a lot of lightning
and cold damage in their Arsenal that
they can double with the wet condition
which is just incredibly powerful and
can help you One-Shot enemies very very
easily altogether the moon Druid is just
um a phenomenal addition to any party
especially parties with more late game
oriented builds or builds that with like
squishy casters and stuff like that that
might need a little bit of help to get
through the early game because it is
just so powerful in the early game and
it makes your honor mode runs so much
smoother in position number nine I have
placed the Assassin Archer this is I
think the strongest way to build this
character the gloomstalker Rogue the
gloomstalker ranger Assassin Rogue
character but there are some other
builds other variants of assassin based
archers will also fit neatly into this
category but this is my recommended
build using gloomstalker Ranger and
Assassin Rogue gets you so many attacks
because you get an additional you get an
attack when you enter combat and then
you get an additional attack on the
first round of combat because Assassin
Rogue refreshes your action and an
addition attack on the first round of
combat because of gloomstalker Ranger
all of that together means that you are
attacking just way more times than other
characters on the first turn of combat
and all of those attacks are automatic
Critical Hits because of the Assassin
Archer feature that means that your
burst damage on this character is second
to none and you can improve it even
further by getting action sered from
fighter Battle Master Maneuvers to
increase your damage even more um or
Champion criticals if you want to go for
a more critical Focus build but the math
generally supports using battl Master
Maneuvers uh and to just get a character
that pretty much one turn kills any
enemy in the entire game making six or
eight attacks that automatically
critical hit that multiply your uh that
multiply your base damage add your
Sharpshooter damage
um hit very frequently because they're
usually made with advantage and you get
archery fighting style and so on
obviously is incredibly powerful and so
the strengths of this character I think
should be mostly pretty obvious VI what
you're here for is burst damage you do
so much damage in the opening round of
combat that almost nothing can survive
and if you can take out one or two or
three enemies in the first turn of
combat that's a lot fewer enemies for
the rest of your party to fight
especially if those enemies are the
strongest enemies in the fight which
often they will be automatic Critical
Hits not only is tons of damage but also
lets you trigger critical hit effects
and you just get way more attacks than
other characters which lets you trigger
on hit effect as well
um you but there are actually a bunch of
parts of this character aside from the
burst damage a lot of strength of this
character aside from just the burst
damage that make it even stronger
because there are some it's strong in
some very unintuitive ways as well for
example this character is incredibly
tanky it will have very high Armor class
because it it's a dexterity based armor
with medium armor you can use a shield
in addition to your in addition to your
bow if you want to um and so you can
have the highest Armor class in the game
you get some damage resistances from
Ranger you can um and just so this
character actually ends up surprisingly
tanky for a dexterity character and you
also get great hit point progression
because you have nine levels of 10 of a
d10 hit die from your Ranger levels and
fighter dice so this character gets a
lot of hit points High Armor class um
and a bunch of other stuff that just
helps it be defensive and because it's
an Archer you will almost never get hit
so this character is incredible R
survivable you also get great utility
spells and Mobility because of your
Rogue or utility skills and spells uh
because of your Ranger and Rogue levels
and great Mobility because of your Rogue
levels giving you bonus action dashes
and hides um so all of that together
makes this character just a very smooth
playthrough as well uh because you can
pick locks with it you can make it your
party face if you want because it's also
totally single attribute dependent um
needing only High dexterity
and because it also needs Feats it often
won't actually need to invest points
into dexterity so this character is
going to end up uh just having a lot of
attribute points you can make it your
party face you can make it uh have 20
strength for no reason you can do all
kinds of cool stuff with the attributes
sprad on this character finally you get
some of the best initiative in the game
because you get the Gloom soccer Ranger
initiative bonus you're a dexterity
based character you can fit alert into
the build pretty easily so you'll pretty
much win initiative which is of course
excellent the weaknesses of this
character are basically that it's got a
relatively slow early game um not
incredibly slow but because you want to
hit uh Ranger 5 and Rogue three before
you get extra attack and critical hits
you have a few levels before you come
into your full potential as a character
um so maybe you're going to play it as a
monoc class Ranger for the first five
levels or take like one Rogue level and
then five Ranger levels
um so you don't get the full benefits of
this build until later on in the build
but of course it's still a solid build
throughout the early game um and also
because it wants the Sharpshooter feet
and only gets two feet as you level up
you basically need the gloves of
dexterity in order to maximize your
dexterity playing this character with 18
base of uh dexterity is fine so you
could do the you could play it just as a
sharpshooter character with a plus two
dexterity or use Ethel's hair or
whatever but the easiest way to play
this character is with the gloves of
dexterity which lets you get another
feet like alert so you always win
initiative and that kind of thing so it
has one item requirement and a
relatively slow start in the early game
but in exchange for that you get some of
the highest burst damage and best
sustained damage in the game broken
stuff you can abuse stealth archery with
greater invisibility uh and that just
instantly wins the game basically
because enemies won't react to your
presence at all um and of course just
being able to One-Shot every enemy in
the encounter before it's starts is what
makes this character so
powerful weighing in at number eight we
have the fire sorcerer so this uses
draconic sorcerer and its ability to
apply its Charisma to damage of its
Associated element alongside the spell
scorching Ray which attacks many many
times per spell cast to apply its
Charisma to its spell damage um multiple
times per turn with a six-level
scorching Ray which fires seven beams
you get to apply your charisma seven
times to your damage so the higher your
charisma the higher your damage that
means that this character does some of
the highest burst damage in the game
especially because you're a sorcerer so
you can cast a scorching Ray and then
twin another scorching Ray to apply your
charisma even more times in a single
turn there are very few enemies in the
game that can survive this burst damage
um and so the fire sorcerer is just one
of the best characters in the game at
just killing an enemy Stone dead you of
course also get all of the other
benefits of a sorcerer you get so you
get amazing burst damage from this
character but you also get all the other
benefits of a sorcerer like incredible
control you get some of the best control
spells in the game and you can
concentrate on them pretty reliably
because you're a sorcerer so you have
con safe proficiency you can Quicken one
and then still cast a fire um Ray or
anything along those lines and you can
twin control spells as well for even
more control and you can twin buff
spells such as for example haste in
order to BU your party especially in
fights where the enemy is immune to fire
damage or you just don't want to spend
highle spell slots on killing stuff you
always have amazing backup op options
because you're a sorcerer you get the
best action economy in the entire game
be able to take up to like five turns in
a single turn if you do a quick and
spell and then a hasted quick and uh
twin spell and then a hasted twin spell
and then a Quicken spell um you can cast
five spells in a single turn and just
completely obliterate encounters by just
unloading your entire Arsenal in a
single turn and you're also for that
reason the best at using items and
Scrolls because you can Quicken the
Spells cast off of them and uh again I
didn't mention this here but one of the
best in the game at using ithd powers
for the same reason because you can use
your spells and elied powers in the same
turn um you can not that you can Quicken
elied Powers but you can use them
alongside other spells as well you also
get access to the Charisma skills cuz
you're a sorcerer which is a great thing
for a party have access to and all of
the other sorcerer uh goodies as well
but the main thing is that you just do
so much upfront damage and are so good
at one-shotting enemies with your high
Charisma based burst damage that very
little is going to survive if you have
the spell slots to unleash on them the
downsides of this character do include
those spell slots because you need six
or fifth level spells to maximize your
charisma damage um this character is
relatively rest dependent you're going
to want to refresh your spell slots
frequently um so this character is going
to cause your party to rest more often
in order to refresh its high damage
combos not that this character can't
contribute when it doesn't have highle
spell slots but in order to use your
your extremely high damage in a given
combat you're going to need highle spell
slots available and you're relatively
squishy because you need to be a highle
sorcerer Sorcerers get the lowest hit
points in the game and you'll often be
in robes so you probably won't have
great armor class um so this character
does have put give you uh some risk to
your party if you misposition it or are
taken by surprise in some way enemies
can get the drop on you the sorcerer
does get access to aside from just the
Brokenness of the way that draconic
sorcerer's Charisma is added to damage
you also get to use aronis oil to strip
fire resistance off of enemies or even
give fire vulnerability to non-fire
resistant enemies through the convoluted
process of applying water to them
hitting them with arsonist's oil and
then waiting for the water to expire but
that can cause um enemies to become weak
to fire doubling all your fire damage
you also get some of the easiest uh
stacks of Arcane Acuity in the entire
game which makes your spells hit
extremely reliably um and then also your
control spells work 100% of the time and
similar to the lock it in everything's
based on Charisma which is one of the
best stats in the game to base things on
because you can boost your charisma
higher than any other that in the game
and since you're applying your charisma
seven times in a turn having high
Charisma means that you can absolutely
Crush encounters because of how high
it's possible to get your charisma
altogether this is the character to take
if you just want to kill things stoned
dead because it will just set the entire
world on fire it's so good at killing
things that it will um obliterate most
boss encounters on its own in the very
first turn and absolutely make any honor
mode run a Bree
coming in at number seven I have placed
clerics yep uh just cleric cleric as a
class is just that good uh in particular
here I'm thinking of light clerics
Tempest clerics or nature clerics of
those light is probably the strongest
for Honor mode runs because of warden
flare just being an extremely powerful
ability but any of those three cleric
variants if taken for 12 levels will be
an excellent addition to any party
clerics have some of the best Spell
access utility spells in the entire game
and access to a bunch of the easiest
access to a bunch of broken mechanics
that other uh characters have a slightly
harder time using or need to warp their
items in order to use clerics just get
to use them by default they also just
make your run so much smoother with
access to the incredible utility spells
that clerics get things like guidance
and whatever are just uh really good for
your party um Aid and heroes feast and
so on are always very very powerful for
a party obviously you can cast those
from a camp Caster but if you're not
using Camp casting then a cleric
bringing those is really good as well
clerics have amazing control um
especially the three types of clerics
that I mentioned they are very very hard
to kill because of their uh medium or
heavy armor and Shields and if they're
in medium armor of the three clerics I
mentioned they also have wng flare to
defend themselves they get to abuse the
buff on heal items using uh like Mass
cure wounds in order to apply blade Ward
and bless to your entire party and they
also just get bless as a spell which
just makes your early game so much
easier um the strengths of cleric are
basically that they can fill any role in
your party incredibly well um and they
can fill all the roles in your party
incredibly well with the exception of
not having great access to skills
especially conversation skills or outof
combat utility like lockpicking but in
terms of combat roles your cleric can
fill any role and do it uh tremendously
effectively while bringing a whole bunch
of extra power to to the table they get
some really great item support so it
lets you use some of the most powerful
items in the game more easily clerics
they're just awesome the weaknesses of
clerics are of course that they are rest
dependent because they're spellcasters
so without spells they don't do anything
and they have relatively poor skill
access um as I just discussed um
especially the the three most powerful
cleric subclasses don't get great access
to skills and so you are going to not be
as easily able to um it will somewhat
constrain the other party members that
you take in that you will need to fill
out the conversation skills and uh
lockpicking utility stealth and so on um
elsewhere in your party if that's
something that you want access to you
can somewhat mitigate this by the way by
taking uh a race that has access to
perception as a skill because then if
your cleric starts with perception then
they're actually bringing a very
important skill to your party and since
they'll have high wisdom um they get to
do that clerics also of course uh a an
unlisted strength here is that clerics
get to take alert at level four it
doesn't hurt them at all to do that and
so you will just get to patch the only
other weakness of the class at level
four by taking the bonus initiative
which means that you'll just always win
initiative clerics also give you access
to some of the most broken mechanics in
the game the stacking mechanics because
using Spirit Guardians they can apply
Radiant orbs and reverberation and max
out those Stacks instantly on enemies um
preventing bosses from attacking maxed
radiant orbs basically completely shuts
down a boss and there's uh no saving
throw against applying those and then
reverberation can knock over entire
encounters so it is very very easy for
your cleric to just single-handedly shut
down every enemy in the entire game
thanks to the broken item access that
they just make so incredibly easy for
their versatility power utility and just
overall strength in a party I think that
cleric uh even though it isn't like the
fanciest build is just take 12 levels of
cleric 12 levels of cleric is pretty
darn good coming in at number six just
shy of reaching the top five but
obviously still an insanely powerful
build we have the lightning Lord this
build uses two levels of wizard uh
usually for divination wizard two levels
of cleric for tempest cleric and eight
levels of sorcerer um in order to cast
maximized witch bolts or chromatic orbs
on enemies to do enormous amounts of
damage in a single turn because you have
sorcerer levels you can quick and create
water to double the damage and then you
can use Tempest cleric to maximize the
damage of your lightning damage which
means that with a six level witch bolt
um and a create water spell this
character can do a guaranteed 300 damage
to any enemy with a single spell cast
more if you can get an ally to apply the
the create water so that you don't have
to spend your bonus action quickening it
on an enemy you can also twin your
spells um so you can use marah Hesh gar
incredibly well for twin chain lightning
and you can twin chromatic orbs on
multiple enemies for even more damage
output so you basically get to one-hot
either the most threatening or the two
most threatening enemies in just about
every encounter on the first turn of
combat 300 damage is so much guaranteed
damage that there are very few enemies
in the game that can survive it and
thanks to divination wizard giving you
portent dice you'll uh be able to know
in advance um you you'll be able to
guarantee hitting the enemies if you
happen to roll low and miss an attack
and so with and you can also increase
this even further with critical hits
using luck of the far Realms or the
killer sweetheart ring um guaranteed
Critical Hits on your uh using luck of
the far realms for guaranteed Critical
Hits to do even more damage which then
gets doubled and maximized and so on the
sheer amount of burst damage that this
character does is nonsensically high and
is enough if you spend spend resources
on it to just completely onot any enemy
in the game there's actually very few
enemies that just have enough base
Health to survive this at all um and the
ones that do of course you will still
have done more than half of their health
most of the time uh and the ability to
burst down the most dangerous enemies in
the game doesn't really need any more
praise from me obviously killing every
enemy in one shot is pretty good you
also get all the utility of these
classes you're an eighth level sorcerer
so you get all of the sorcery utility
spells as well as dialogue skills if you
want them you get defensive options like
shield and counter spell um and you get
to um and you get uh con con save so
you'll maintain concentration and you
get all the utility of being a cleric
and all the utility of having every
wizard spell at your disposal because of
the way wizard scribe spells you just
get to learn every spell in the game so
you have great damage great utility
great control you have access to twinned
haste
um so you can just similar to the fire
sorcerer you can cast up to five spells
in a turn um and if you get your ally to
apply wet for your combo you can combo
down multiple enemies in the opening
turn of combat or just cast a bunch of
powerful control spells if that's what's
called for in that combat all of those
options make this character incredibly
powerful because of the sheer amount of
damage and utility that it provides
weaknesses of the character you are
relatively squishy you do get heavy
armor access so you're not as squishy as
and shield uh proficiency you're not as
squishy as some other casters but still
relatively squishy and rest dependent
because you need to use your highle
spell slots for the combo I will say
that one misconception about this kind
of build and the fire sorcerer build is
that they are more rest dependent than
other casters but that's actually not
true um in a fight where you spend a six
level spell slot to instantly kill the
most powerful enemy in that combat any
other Caster would have probably spent a
spent as many or more spell slots in
order to win that combat so you are
actually more sustainable over the
course of the day with these One-Shot
combo characters than other characters
are um but still you need those spell
slots in order to fight so you are rest
dependent and you have a relatively slow
early game because this build really
wants to be at least level four before
it comes online um and before you reach
the break points where your damage
starts one-shotting people is somewhere
around like level seven when you get
access to fourth level spell slots
uh so this character does have a
relatively slow early game but of course
you're still just a cleric sourcer or a
wizard so you can play just normally in
the early game using clouds of daggers
and Magic missiles and stuff to get you
through the early game but the real
combo doesn't come online until a little
bit later there this uh broken stuff
column looks relatively thin because
there's really only one mechanic that
we're abusing here but this character is
the best in the game at abusing it and
that's the wet mechanic doubling the
sheer uh am amount of damage that we do
means that the damage increase we're
getting from wet is absolutely absurd so
this character just completely
obliterates enemies using this broken
mechanic which is one of the best things
that you can be doing in balers Gate 3
and here we are entering our top five
weighing in at number five we have the
abjuration wizard abjuration wizard uses
armor of agathys um combined with
stacking Arcane Ward to have extremely
high temporary hit points and extremely
high damage reduction and effectively be
Invincible the way that Arcane Ward
Works in Boulders Gate 3 means that it
reduces the amount of damage that is
incoming towards your character
enormously and is very easy to replenish
just by casting more ABD duration spells
in combat and so if combats go long this
character can tank literally thousands
of damage without ever taking a scratch
um the strengths of this character are
simple it is Invincible uh it is almost
impossible for this character to die in
a normal combat of Baler Gate 3 you have
to like go AFK and pass the turn many
many times once you have your combo set
up um for an enemy to actually be able
to kill you uh you will never lose
concentration on spells because it's
very rare that you'll actually take any
damage at all from enemies um once
you've especially once you've provide uh
appli damage reduction like blade Ward
or warding bond to your character you
get great control spells as well as that
because you are still just a fully
functional wizard you're an 11th level
wizard so you have access to some of the
best control spells in the game and just
great Spell access in general um but
mostly the reason that this character is
so good is just that you are a wizard
doing normal wizard things but you're
completely unkillable and that is just
an incredible thing to be a wizard is a
really powerful thing for a character to
be but Wizards do have inherent
drawbacks not abjuration Wizards there
are no drawbacks to this
characters uh one other fun thing about
this character is that enemies will
often ignore you um and just completely
ignore your character so you can just
waddle into the middle of enemies with
impunity uh and you get incredibly
consistent damage because um you can get
enemies wet in some way to double cold
damage that they take and then provoke
opportunity attacks by moving next to
them and then moving away they'll hit
you dealing zero damage because of your
Arcane Ward and then they take 60 return
damage from the armor of agathys that
you get from being a white draconic
sorcerer all of those together are uh
just make this character incredibly
consistent damage incredibly consistent
control um very very very hard to lose
the game with and that is something that
I value pretty highly so abjuration
wizard comes in at number five
weaknesses of this character you are
relatively rest dependent if enemies do
hit you a lot then you need to cast
spells to refresh your Arcane Ward so
you'll then need to rest to gain those
spell slots back and the other downside
is that enemies will ignore you um you
are a tank so you would prefer if
enemies attacked you but it's actually
somewhat difficult to get them to focus
on this character some easier ways to do
that are to give them advantage on
attacks with things like the risky ring
or mostly by just provoking opportunity
attacks on purpose uh it to both eat
enemy reactions and to make to increase
your damage the broken stuff that this
character is doing is the wet condition
because wet is just very good you're
just going to double your cold damage
output with your armor of agathys for
just a guaranteed 60 damage whenever
enemies hit you uh which they're going
to do very frequently and Arcane Ward
which is the whole thing that this spell
is that this build is based around is
just an incredibly broken mechanic so
abusing it is one of the absolute most
powerful things that you can do in an
honor mode run um if you are looking for
a caster you have found that your
casters are dying don't worry this one
never will so this is the perfect caster
for you coming in at number four we have
the Berserker Barbarian thrower this
build uses Berserker Barbarian and its
ability to throw weapons as a bonus
action combined with Thief Rogue and its
ability to make more bonus actions to
enter a berserk rage and then throw an
awful lot of weapons every turn you can
add fighter in for even more attacks
which is extremely power powerful as
well as eldrich Knight's ability to bond
a weapon if there's a weapon that you
want to throw that doesn't normally have
the returning property this lets you do
some of the most consistent and Powerful
damage in the entire game because of
Tavern brawler being so broken Throne
weapons get to use Tavern brawler and
Throne weapons get to be ranged so you
get to apply Tavern brawler at range
which is really awesome um and that
means that your attacks basically never
miss you get an awful lot of attacks
every turn because you're making your
attacks with making fully featured and
in fact even more powerful than normal
attacks with your two bonus actions um
and then you also get action surge once
per fight to do even more attacks so
you're getting tons of attacks your
attacks never miss they do more damage
than just about any other Marshall
character in the game um and your bonus
action attacks give you a free prone
every single turn or two uh in once you
have Thief Rogue and can make multiple
attacks per turn in later rounds of
combat which can disrupt enemy
spellcasters give advantage to
subsequent attacks from the rest of your
party um and just overall be an
incredibly powerful tool for having
adding in some control to this already
incredibly damaging character you also
of course you're a barbarian you enter a
barbarian rage you're a fighter you've
got uh fighter abilities you can be in
medium armor and whatever um and so you
get to be pretty tanky overall uh
especially for a ranged attacker and you
get great util utility skills because
you're a rogue so you get access to um
lockpicking or other utility skills you
can even have this character play as
your party face if you want and just
start with a rogue level so this
character can be built in a lot of ways
that actually bring a lot of utility to
your party you also get the bonus action
dashes and hides from Rogue which makes
you quite mobile not that you really
need to be because you are a ranged
character that never misses so you don't
really need to move that often but um
the sheer amount of damage that this
character outputs just makes it
ridiculous the weaknesses of this
character there are some um the
strengths are just so strong that they
overcome all of these weaknesses in my
opinion but there are some actual
weaknesses to this character uh one is
that you do require a setup turn because
you have to enter rage so in the early
game that's going to cost you uh your
your bonus action um and you won't be
able to make an automatic prone attack
on the first turn of combat because you
will have spent your bonus action raging
instead of throwing with your Berserker
Barbarian throw in later turns that's
just going to cost you one throw because
the Rogue bonus action will give you a
second one but you do have a setup turn
where you do less damage than the rest
of the combat and it's always better to
frontload your damage if possible so set
even a slight setup turn definitely does
make this character a little bit harder
to play sometimes and you get uh delayed
access to alert because you have to take
Tavern brawler at level four so this
character won't be able to get alert
until at earliest level eight uh usually
level 9 um which means that you will
often lose initiative with this
character if you don't invest heavily
into initiative items or elixir of
vigilance and so on which is sometimes
difficult to do because this character
also really wants to use strength Elixir
that's what makes this level split uh
viable because otherwise you would need
to take Barbarian 8 Rogue 4 in order to
actually hit 20 strength uh
so this this build really does want to
use strength Elixir you can build it
without them but it is a weaker version
of the build if you aren't drinking an
elixir of Hill giant strength every day
broken St stuff is pretty obvious for
this character you get Tavern brawler
which is just an incredibly broken feat
makes your attacks hit uh 100% at the
time basically makes them do way more
damage than any other character's
attacks in the game do and these are
fully featured weapon attacks so they're
also just doing all the damage and
effects of your weapons
um you get to throw weapons which is
just powerful in and of itself in
Boulders gate cuz it applies all the
effects of the weapon uh but at range so
you get to do just more damage than most
characters um and you get strength
Elixir uh which are broken because they
let you get dozens of attribute points
and two Feats for free if you just drink
an elixir of strength every day that's
an incredibly broken thing and some of
the best builds in the game are built
around maximizing the power of the
strength Elixir that if you drink them
every day the other thing that I should
mention about this character is that
while this is a slight spoiler there is
a bug currently with the final boss
where when you target them with a thrown
weapon it often won't hit and then will
disappear and that's a real downside to
the thrower uh builds because you turn
into a Melee character for the last
battle in the game um but if you know
about that going in in in advance you
can play around the bug and hopefully
they'll fix that
eventually coming in at number three and
I expect this one's going to surprise
some people because I bet this was a lot
of people's pick for number one uh we
have the Open Hand monk honestly the the
difference between these top five
characters is so thin that you could
reorder these and I'd be happy with
pretty much any order but I think that
the open-hand monk does have one
downside that lets the next two builds
Edge it out very slightly but that is
just uh that pales in comparison to just
how broken this build Is Us
uh levels of Monk and Thief Rogue and
with open hand monk specifically you get
two additional bonus actions in a round
which you can ED for flurries of BL
Flurry of Blows which lets you by
default make eight attacks in a turn
using a monk n Rogue three build or 10
attacks in a turn using a fighter build
and all of those attacks will Almost
Never Miss because you get to abuse
Tavern brawler all of those attacks will
do massive damage because you get to
abuse Tavern brawler and open hand monk
gets damag steroids um and there's items
that give you even more damage steroids
so this character the amount of damage
this character can do in a single turn
becomes just ridiculous it's extremely
consistent and extremely powerful and
you get so many free um crowd control
effect from open-hand monk that you will
very often just not ever learn what a
boss does even if it happens to live for
a turn through your damage you get to
knock enemies prone or um push them back
for free
multiple times per turn you get to stun
enemies multiple times per turn for
basically for free obviously both of
those cost a key point but that's hardly
a resource and you're incredibly mobile
so this character does some of the
highest burst damage in the game some of
the highest sustained damage in the game
um never misses its attacks and just
does uh does so much for a party
honestly there's like not that much to
say about the strengths of this
character because it just has so many
strengths when it comes to dishing out
damage it's uh the best Melee character
in the game by far um just crushes
encounters all on its own only enemies
who are immune to stun of which there
are very very few in the game are uh or
if you roll badly uh or enemies roll
really well on their stun saves uh are
you ever going to actually have to play
the game when you're playing an
open-hand monk um so most of the time
you're just going to completely
obliterate the uh every encounter that
this character enters there are some
downsides to this character it's melee
which isn't as big a downside for this
character CU you're a rogue so you have
the extra Dash and you have uh great
mobility and jump distance and so on you
can almost always get into range of
enemies and then leave range if you need
to but being melee is still a downside
it makes your positioning a little bit
harder um and it is relatively squishy
for a Melee character monks get
relatively low AC cuz they can't wear
armor and get relatively low hit points
uh because they just lower hit points so
you can have this character go down with
focused attention from an enemy um that
is certainly possible if an enemy
happens to live through your turns it's
not something that happens often but it
does happen and that's what makes this
character just a little bit harder to
play than the next two in the list um
and then also you get uh you have to
delay alert because you're taking Tavern
brawler at level four so you won't get
alert until minimum level 8
um and probably not until Level 9 when
you can have monk 5 and Rogue four or
something along those lines uh so you
are going to lose initiative sometimes
something that does put this character a
little bit behind most of the other
characters in the list that get to take
alert very early and win initiative 100%
of the time uh and you are very
multi-attribute dependent which makes
you item dependent and in particular
makes you strength Elixir dependent
monks can be played without using
strength Elixir but it's basically
mandat
you need uh four of the six attributes
to be as high as possible and so getting
all of those stats from strength Elixir
is basically mandatory to make this
build work uh to its optimal effect you
can still make a very strong monk
without abusing Elixir but for the most
part um the Open Hand monk build
especially like the 93 build or the 642
build just have to take um just have to
drink an Elixir every day broken stuff
from this build obviously Tavern brawler
obviously strength Elixir and also
stunning strike especially is
implemented in balder's Gate where it
uses your strength or dexterity for its
save DC so the safety seers is even
higher than it is in tabletop but
stunning strikes already just a
completely broken mechanic just um the
ability to stun an enemy on a relatively
High safet DC without spending an action
on it at all cuz you you just have to
hit them which you want to do anyways so
it's entirely action economy free to
roll stunning strike is just a broken
mechanic that exists in Dungeons and
Dragons and this character gets to abuse
it to Perfection if you just want to
completely wipe the floor with every
encounter may I recommend open hand
monks and coming in at number two just
shy of reaching the first spot but still
obviously an incredibly powerful build
we have the eldrich Knight thrower now
you're probably noticing a pattern over
the last three builds and that is that
they all center around abusing Tavern
brawler that's cuz that's just a broken
feat the best builds in the game Focus
around abusing this feat because it's so
powerful if you can maximize its ability
the eldr KN thrower uses uh 11 levels of
fighter and one level of War cleric or
possibly 12 levels of Fighter um to just
make as many Throne weapon attacks in
the opening round of combat as you can
you can throw any weapon cuz you're the
Elder any thr any weapon with the throne
property CU you're the Elder Knight so
you can do a weapon bond which gives you
a little bit more access to different
items but uh mostly the idea here is
just that in the opening round of combat
you make seven attacks once you are max
level because you get to throw three
times with your main action throw three
times with your action Surge and then
throw one more time with your cleric
bonus action of course you can increase
this further with bloodlust Elixir or
haste or whatever that means that you
have basically the highest first turn
burst damage in the game at maximum
level and it's really good all the way
through the obvious question to ask here
is why do I value the eldrich Knight
thrower over the Berserker thrower and
that burst damage is the answer the
Berserker thrower in the first turn of
combat can make five attacks and the
eldrich Knight thrower in the first turn
of combat can make seven attacks so it's
just more likely to end the encounter
before it begins on honor mode
especially in the late game bursting
down enemies in the first turn of combat
is mostly all that matters just killing
them before they get to act and the
eldrich KN thrower is basically the best
character in the game at doing that you
operate from range so and you never miss
your attacks so with seven attacks that
do some of the highest per attack damage
in the game because you're using Tavern
Boller um probably have a cloud giant
Elixir for tons of damage and get to add
all the damage bonuses from your weapon
and your gear and so on because these
are all weapon attacks since they're
thrown weapons uh you just do uh the
most damage of just about any character
in the game incredibly reliably and
Incredibly sustainably your War cleric
charges will go away and eventually
you'll run out of action surges of
course but uh three attacks with the
Elder Knight thrower every subsequent
turn of combat is still incredibly
powerful um and more than enough to get
through most combats so the strengths of
this character are sustained damage as
well as incredible burst damage um and
you are also one of the hardest
characters in the entire game to kill
being an eldrich Knight means that you
will have access to Heavy Armor and the
shield spell so you can easily be in the
mid3 in terms of armor class so if
you're not confident in your positioning
this character is perfect because it
will it's very very hard for it to die
um and so that's what I think gives it
the very slight Edge over the uh the
Open Hand monk um is just that if you
you know accidentally hit space bar and
end your turn or something uh the
eldrich Knight thrower won't die and it
there's a possibility that the monk will
in that sort of uh circumstance where
something goes terribly wrong uh so this
character I think is just so good at
getting through honor mode um and so
safe to play and so reliable kills
enemies so easily that it is my number
two pick for Honor mode you also get a
couple utility spells that's worth
mentioning you get to have long Strider
and enhanced leap from your fighter
which is not a zero um and like the
Berserker Barbarian this one does suffer
from the final boss bug so just be aware
of that going in we've talked about the
broken stuff already but you get to
abuse Elixir unlike the Berserker this
uh the eldr Knight doesn't have to uh
you can still max out your strength get
alert and Tavern brawler with just the
three Feats that you get access to cuz
fighter gets an extra feet at level six
um and you don't delay access to alert
that much CU you still get it at level
six so it's just a smoother level
progression but obviously both of those
builds are
incredible and that will bring us to our
first place position my pick for the
best character to play through honor
mode with and that is of course the
swords bar Archer swords bars with when
using ranged attacks get to use slashing
flourishes to just double all of their
ranged attacks and so when you are doing
twice as many attacks as any other
character um you are going to easily win
the game swords barred archers get to
abuse some of the most broken mechanics
in the game as well as just having an
incredibly powerful kit at their
disposal they have utility skills they
have utility spells they have control
spells they have amazing sustained
damage because they're archers they have
amazing burst damage because they get to
burn their Inspirations to do tons of
extra damage um if you take a fight or
two split then you can do even more
attacks in the opening round of combat
uh you get to make more attacks than
anybody else basically uh so you are
also just the best user for any Buffs
that increase your damage output and
just basically get to be better casters
than the casters and better Fighters
than the fighters the the fact of the
matter is that there's not that much to
discuss about swords barred archers
strengths because name a strength in the
game and they are better at that than
characters that are specked specifically
into doing that thing better archers
than archers better casters than casters
better melee Fighters than melee
Fighters uh even if you're specked into
archery um the list honestly just goes
on and you can do pretty much anything
because slashing flourish just letting
you make multiple attacks the band of
the Mystic scoundrel and the Helm of
Arcane Acuity letting you land spells uh
with 100% guaranteed efficiency as a
bonus action the fact that you are a a
full level Bard so you get access to all
of Bard's skill access access to all of
Bard's Spell access uh means that there
is just nothing that this character
cannot do and it will solo the game
basically um with even the slightest
amount of Party Support of course you
it's also a totally viable play
character to play if you do want to
actually solo the game um the swords bar
Archer just does everything your
positioning mostly doesn't matter CU
you're an Archer and you have incredibly
powerful Spell access and you get access
to all the best spells in the game
because of magical secrets that you get
at level 10 um overall this character
just does way too much all wrapped into
a single package and all of the things
it does are individually better than
characters that are specifically specked
into trying to do those things there are
some weaknesses to the swords bar Archer
most notably it is squishy you're still
a Bard you've taken all of your your
levels um in Bard but you do get a lot
of good defensive options despite being
a Bard um especially if you dip one
level into like sorcerer or uh wizard
because then you can pick up Shield as
well and you're going to be in medium
armor you're going to be a dexterity
character you will be able to wear a
shield if you want so you'll have great
AC so while you have lower hit points um
than most other characters
especially characters that are sort of
Marshall by default you still are going
to be relatively hard to kill and the
other weakness is that you do want the
Sharpshooter feet uh and so in order to
you will probably need the gloves of
dexterity you can take Sharpshooter and
then just plus two decks or Sharpshooter
plus two decks and Ethel's hair to reach
20 dexterity um but for the most part
you are going to need at least one item
in order to make up your attribute
deficit um and especially if you don't
want to spend a second feat on boosting
your dexterity and instead get something
like alert which of course is incredibly
powerful for this character as well um
this character does delay access to
alert a little bit I guess I didn't put
that in the weaknesses but you're a
dexterity character so that matters a
lot less for you than it does for other
characters um and you get to abuse
broken stuff like Arcane Acuity and band
of the Mystic scoundrel with the Helm of
Arcane Acuity you can stack your your
Arcane Acuity instantly by using ING
flourishes with your attacks or by using
an arrow of many targets um and then
with your bonus action you can cast an
enchantment spell um like hypnotic
pattern just to wipe out any enemies in
the encounter Who Remain with save DCS
that are infinitely high so that enemies
can never pass them after your first
turn of combat where you will always win
initiative there will never be any
enemies who left who can act when you're
playing the swords barred Archer you can
either get command from magical Secret
at level 10 or take one level of warlock
for command either way works just fine
um because it'll still keep you with uh
with it uh Charisma as your casting stat
um and this character just does
everything all in a single package there
is basically no downside to playing it
and all upsides uh being a swords bar is
broken and it is the best character in
the game My Number One build for Honor
mode all right my friends I hope that
you've enjoyed this look at the top 11
builds for honor mode for balers Gate 3
you might be wondering why 11 and the
answer is just uh I couldn't narrow it
down honestly I felt like not mentioning
any one of these builds would be doing
people a disservice when they were
looking for strong builds um and there's
obviously tons and tons of builds that I
didn't mention that are still incredible
if one of your favorite builds didn't
make the list definitely let me know in
the comments obviously the top like 500
builds or so for Honor mode are all
amazing um and which different people's
list are going to reflect their play
style or different things that they
value maybe you don't care about passing
dialogue checks as much as I do or maybe
you don't care about uh not long resting
uh all the time as much as I do um or
maybe you care way more about those
things and so what you value in a build
might be a little bit different but I
think that these builds will be an
amazing primer if you are just looking
for a good starting point to build
strong powerful parties around they get
to abuse some of the most bro broken
mechanics in Boulder's Gate
as always if you have enjoyed the video
uh leave a like that helps me out a ton
with the algorithm and leave a comment
let me know what you think and you can
subscribe to my channel for more of this
and other strategy game content cheers
my friends I'll catch you next time